### Breakout Rooms!

- What do you like about your current IDE?
- What do you wish it could do better?

### What is Vim?

Vim is an open source modal text editor. It's highly extendable and customizable. You have Vim motions and vim operators. You have modes like normal, visual, insert, command, etc. to do certain actions in. You have motions like hjkl, wb, $0, etc. to move around with.

There is a Vim motion plugin for nearly every IDE that I **strongly** encourage you to try.

QA time

### What is Neovim?

Neovim is a fork of Vim that aims to be hyper-extendable. What does that mean? It means lots of APIs, plugins, and customization. It's easier to add plugins, extend features, and customize your enviroment (compared to vim). Neovim has an amazing community and tons of support.

### Who is Neovim for?

Neovim is for _everyone_! But who is it geared towards?

- If you like to tinker and optimize
- If you want one, customized, developer enviroment personal to you
- If you want to spend twice the amount of time doing something that would've taken you 2 clicks to do in VS Code :)
- If you LOVE the terminal and never want to leave it

### How do I easily try Neovim?

I've made a GitHub repo with a starter Neovim setup that will give you the basics. It's meant to be easy to understand and extendable.

https://github.com/prabhjot98/simple-neovim-start
git clone git@github.com:prabhjot98/simple-neovim-start.git

Let's go over the file directory for it.

### Let's add a colorscheme to our setup!

https://github.com/topics/neovim-colorscheme

- Find a colorscheme you like
- Create a colorscheme file in plugins/
- Import and configure the scheme
- Reload Neovim and enjoy your new theme!

Closing thoughts
